Since first space explorations we found out that it Is necessary pursuit to guarantee our survival. Scientists made calls to colonize moon and other planets, because one day life on earth might be doomed. There are ideas of making private trips to space for ordinary people.
According to scientific theory, about 5 bilion years from now our sun will expand in size and envelop other planets of solar system including earth. Humanity still has time to plan their escape. Thereafor are also other threats – collisions with asteroids and comets. As well solar system could be exposed to gamma ray bursts, which could fry all life on earth. These astronomical threats would be present for moon or mars either.
Life on earth might come to end due to environmental castastrophes.  There’s a question: should we put all our resources into colonizing other worlds or should we focus on solving the problems which cause natural and manmade disasters?
What does moon and Mars offer? There’s an extreme and unfriendly environment for human. People would not be able to life there without sophisticated life – support systems. By now we do not own technology to terra – form. Humanity would be set to live in a space capsules.
Although on both bodies were discovered water. It exists in minerals. To access water, it would require huge amounts of energy. On the other case water could be converted into the fuel, but at very big cost. Besides moon could use solar panels, but moon is sunlit only for half a month. 
A moon base was envisioned as a launch pad for Martian expeditions. Otherwise they would be launched directly from earth or orbiting space station. Trip would last for 9 months and astronauts would be exposed to deadly solar cosmic rays. Extra shielding would mean extra weight and less fuel – it would mean one way journay. Still people are willing to make sacrifices.
Moon belongs to no nation. Military bases are forbidden on any celestial, because nation could control all launches from the earth.
Since space age began, orbital environment of Earth has become polluted and crowded. There are big number of satellites. At every rocket launch there’s a thousands of pieces of space junk released into the space. Also every destructed satellite release huge amount of junk. 
In the future due to space junk, it will be hard for further launches to take place without a great risk of failure.
Cause of Space explorations we might start ignore earth problems. If we accept inevitability of the destruction of the earth, then it’s not too surprising that people look toward the heavens for solutions. 
Star trek emboldened us to dream of a space as the final frontier. Althogh Earth is a perfect final frontier for us. We travel around sun, sun travels around the galaxy. We have plenty of time to keep Earth in a good state, and when we can venture to another planet – new frontier.

